https://engineering-jobs.theiet.org/article/the-biggest-cv-mistakes-you-ll-ever-make/

The biggest CV mistakes you'll ever make

With numerous ways to apply for jobs in today's modern world such as 
LinkedIn, Twitter and more, many of us may think the CV is dead in favour of 
a sufficient LinkedIn profile. However, CVs are still incredibly important. 
You may be applying for a job differently, but the prospective employer 
still wants all of your work experience and skills laid out in an easy to 
read format before they consider hiring you. Everybody makes mistakes on 
their CV - but here are a few tips on how to avoid a lot of them.

retro reading

The obvious

Let's get the most commonly made mistakes out of the way first. If your CV 
has terrible grammar and spelling, it'll go straight in the bin. Be sure to 
re-read it over again. If you're still not sure, leave it for a day or so 
and read it once more. It's astounding how a fresh look on a document can 
help you see many errors.

How many pages is your CV? If it's more than two, you need to condense it 
down. The rule of thumb with CVs is two pages - depending on the industry of 
course. If you're struggling on what to leave out, look at what you've put 
at the bottom of the last page. If you've been prioritising your CV, the 
bits left towards the end should probably go.

Speaking of prioritising your CV, make sure you do this before anything 
else. A well-structured CV shows professionalism and an awareness of what 
your employer will want to see. For example, don't start off your CV with 
your interests and hobbies, your grades at school 15 years ago and then your 
work experience at the bottom. After your name and your contact details 
employers will want to see your relevant work experience, followed by other 
important bits (more on this later).

This may be one of the most obvious points of all, but it's worth mentioning 
nonetheless. Make sure you have a professional email address! It shouldn't 
be your current work address or university address, but a personal account 
with a simple name. Something like 'lazyguy44@...' won't go down well.

Incorrect information is something that's so easily missed on a CV. If you're 
supplying an old email address or contact number, it shows negligence before 
your CV has even been fully read, and you'll miss out on potential interview 
and job offers this way.

If you're handing your CV in by hand, you want to avoid using thin, cheap 
paper. Alternatively you don't want to use cardboard either! Unless you're 
applying to the graphic design industry, try to find a good middle ground. 
If you use cheap paper, it can give the impression that you're printing off 
as many CVs as possible and you're not too bothered who gets it - i.e. 
quantity over quality.

Stay positive

It might seem like this point belongs in the 'obvious' pile, but it's 
actually quite easy to inadvertently say something negative about a previous 
employer or yourself on your CV. If you've put your reason for leaving on 
there, don't be negative. If it is a negative reason, don't say your reason 
for leaving unless you're asked in an interview.

As well as this, there's a fine line between being modest and being 
self-deprecating. You don't have to shout about how amazing you are, but you 
should highlight key achievements you've made for your previous and current 
employers. For example, if you launched a very successful campaign or 
increased sales by a third, mention it.

Structure is key

As previously mentioned, the structure of your CV is incredibly important. 
Generally, you should have your name and up to day contact details at the 
top, followed by your previous work history from current/newest down to 
oldest, any relevant work experience such as volunteering, your 
qualifications (such as university degree and other certifications, 
educational or industrial) followed by grades at school/college (if still 
relevant) then concluding with any hobbies or interests you have - 
especially ones that link in with the job you're applying for. Try to 
mention key skills you have here too that might fit in with the job 
description. This is a very rough structural guide to a good CV, but it's 
worth starting here and then making it your own after you've got a secure 
structure.

No photos or crazy fonts please

It's tempting to try and do everything to stand out from the crowd on your 
CV. This includes including a portrait of what you look like or an unusual 
font/colour scheme. If you're applying for a job that would encourage a 
different style of CV (such as graphic design) this could be acceptable. 
However, for the most part all the frills and pictures need to be avoided. 
It's about the quality of what's been written, not what it looks like on the 
page, and you don't want to give the impression that you're more style than 
substance. It also makes it easier for the recruiter to make an unbiased 
impression, based solely on your skills and expertise.

One size DOESN'T fit all

It's a common misconception that you can create one amazing CV and send the 
same document to lots of different employers and get the same response from 
each of them, especially when you can apply for jobs on your phone one after 
the other. You should tailor your CV to the job you're applying for, not the 
industry. This can be time consuming and a little tedious but it'll pay off 
in the long run. Use key words from the job specification and prioritise 
your qualifications and skills to that particular job.

Finally, try these bite size tips:

    Read your CV out loud to yourself. It may seem silly, but you're most 
likely going to be repeating it in an interview anyway. Reading it out loud 
from the page will help you see if it runs smoothly.
    Let a friend or fellow professional look over your CV. If you're in the 
position where a colleague or your line manager is happy to look at it, take 
advantage of this. They might remember a training course you went on that 
you should include as well as other key achievements.
    Update your CV as you go along. Even if you're not job seeking, you 
should update your CV regularly- especially if you achieve something good. 
This is because it's easy to forget facts and figures surrounding your job.
    Examples = experience. Not duties! Don't just list your day to day 
activities. If you can list various examples of your work in your CV, this 
is much more valuable to an employer than telling them how many emails you 
answer each day. Don't be too wordy here either. Just get to the point so 
you don't take up too much space.
    Remember to attach the correct version of your CV before you send it. 
This is actually quite a common error. Also, make sure you name your CV 
something that's easy for your employer to recognise, such as 
'firstname.secondname.CV'.
    Do not title your CV 'CV' or 'Curriculum Vitae'. The employer knows what 
they're looking at. Have your name at the top in clear, bold writing. Keep 
the document simple and clean looking.

If you follow these effortless tips, you're well on your way to creating an 
excellent CV. Best of luck in your job hunt! Is your CV complete? Why not 
have a look and see if your CV passes the 30 second test?

Be sure to follow us on Twitter at @EandTJ
By Georgina Bloomfield

Published: 30 Jul 2015


© 2015 - 2017 The Institution of Engineering and Technology. IET Services 
Limited is registered in England. Registered Office: Savoy Place, London, 
WC2R 0BL. Registration Number 909719. IET Services Limited is trading as a 
subsidiary of the Institution of Engineering and Technology, which is 
registered as a Charity in England & Wales (no 211014) and Scotland (no 
SC038698). Powered by Madgex Job Board Solutions
